Add documentation for ide0130 (#32885)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0130.md

---
title: "IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
ms.date: 12/05/2021
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IDE0130
helpviewer_keywords:
- IDE0130
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren

> dev_langs:

Author: Will do

- CSharp
- VB
---
# Namespace does not match folder structure (IDE0130)

| Property                 | Value                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Rule ID**              | IDE0130                                                |
| **Title**                | Namespace does not match folder structure              |
| **Category**             | Style                                                  |

> | **Subcategory**          | Naming  rules                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Subcategory**          | Language rules                                        |
```

Reviewer: I don't think this is a "naming rule" in terms of how "naming rules" are used in the docs.

Author: Agree. I had this change and forgot to hit save :/

## Overview

This style rule uses the folder structure of the project to enforce namespace naming requirements.

## Options

Options specify the behavior that you want the rule to enforce. For information about configuring options, see [Option format](language-rules.md#option-format).

### dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder

| Property                 | Value                                                | Description                                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder                  |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                                               | Prefer namespace naming to match folder structure. |
|                          | `false`                                              | Disables the rule.                                 |
| **Default option value** | `false`                                              |                                                    |

## Example

> Assume that the following file is `Data\Example.cs`, where `Data` represents the folder structure from the project file. Also note that the structure is added to the root namespace, which in this example will be `Root`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that the following code snippets are from a file named `Data/Example.cs`, where `Data` represents the folder structure from the project file. The folder structure naming is added to the root namespace, which in this example is `Root`.
```

---
title: "IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
ms.date: 12/05/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IDE0130
helpviewer_keywords:

> - IDE0130

Reviewer 2: @gewarren Do we add the code-style option in f1_keywords and helpviewer_keywords?

Reviewer: It's probably a good idea.

author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
- VB
---

> # Namespace does not match folder structure (IDE0130)

Reviewer 2: IIRC, there was some requirement about a specific MSBuild property being set or something like that, can't recall exactly.

If that is still true, can you document it?

Author: It's only _sort_ of true. That's where the nuance in running with a workspace vs not comes in. To get in command line builds you have to set the project root, but for VS it is provided through the workspace context (via project system). 

I wasn't sure how much nuance we wanted to add to this page

Reviewer 2: Running analyzers in command-line builds is a core scenario IMO.

If the user should do something special, it's better to be documented.

Reviewer: Yes, I agree with @Youssef1313 .

| **Applicable languages** | C# and Visual Basic                                    |
| **Options**              | `dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder`                  |

## Overview

This style rule uses the folder structure of the project to enforce namespace naming requirements.

## Options

Options specify the behavior that you want the rule to enforce. For information about configuring options, see [Option format](language-rules.md#option-format).

### dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder

| Property                 | Value                                                | Description                                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder                  |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                                               | Prefer namespace naming to match folder structure. |
|                          | `false`                                              | Disables the rule.                                 |

> | **Default option value** | `false`                                              |                                                    |

Reviewer 2: Isn't the default value `true`?

https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/19704e6876c4a5a88267af5cf83a4bfe6287d356/src/Workspaces/SharedUtilitiesAndExtensions/Compiler/Core/CodeStyle/IdeCodeStyleOptions.cs#L64

Author: Oh yes! I forgot to update here. It's true with severity suggestion

Author: Do we not supply the default severity somewhere?

## Example

> Assume that the following code snippets are from a file named `Data/Example.cs`, where `Data` represents the folder structure from the project file. The folder structure naming is added to the root namespace, which in this example is `Root`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assume that the following code snippets are from a file named `Data/Example.cs` or `Data/Example.vb`, where `Data` represents the folder structure from the project file. The folder structure naming is added to the root namespace, which in this example is `Root`.
```

> ### C\#
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Do we not want headers here? Just a styling question, I'm happy either way

Reviewer 2: @ryzngard The site will show a selector in the page and show only one of the snippets if they are put one after another without headers in between. For example:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31348972/206022233-4b366a4c-1068-48ea-b8ba-7e209a4dd43c.png)

This is what `dev_langs` is for.

```csharp
// Code with violations
namespace Root.BadExample
{
    class Example
    {
        public void M()
        {
        }
    }
}

// Fixed code
namespace Root.Data
{
    class Example
    {
        public void M()
        {
        }
    }
}
```

> ### VB
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Overview

This style rule uses the folder structure of the project to enforce namespace naming requirements.

## Options

Options specify the behavior that you want the rule to enforce. For information about configuring options, see [Option format](language-rules.md#option-format).

### dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder

| Property                 | Value                                                | Description                                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder                  |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                                               | Prefer namespace naming to match folder structure. |
|                          | `false`                                              | Disables the rule.                                 |
| **Default option value** | `true`                                               |                                                    |

> [!NOTE]

> > `dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder` depends on knowing the current project and root namespace properties. This is provided by Visual Studio but not done in command line builds. For command line builds, such as `dotnet build` to work, you must add the following properties to your `.editorconfig`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder` option depends on knowing the current project and root namespace properties. This information is provided by Visual Studio but is not available for command-line builds, such as `dotnet build`. For command-line builds to work, you must add the following properties to your *.editorconfig* file:

```

---
title: "IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule IDE0130: Namespace does not match folder structure"
ms.date: 12/05/2022
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:

> - IDE0130

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IDE0130
- dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder
```

helpviewer_keywords:

> - IDE0130

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IDE0130
- dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder
```

| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| **Option name**          | dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder                  |                                                    |
| **Option values**        | `true`                                               | Prefer namespace naming to match folder structure. |
|                          | `false`                                              | Disables the rule.                                 |
| **Default option value** | `true`                                               |                                                    |

> [!NOTE]
> The `dotnet_style_namespace_match_folder` option depends on knowing the current project and root namespace properties. This information is provided by Visual Studio but is not available for command-line builds, such as `dotnet build`. For command-line builds to work, you must add the following properties to your *.editorconfig* file and replace the root directory and namespace placeholders with your values:

> 

Reviewer: >

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>
```
